docs: add multitenancy keycloak integration tutorials (#793)
hyperledger-labs/open-enterprise-agent: docs/docusaurus/multitenancy/tenant-onboarding-self-service.md

# Tenant Onboarding Self-Service

In the [Tenant Onboarding with External IAM](./tenant-onboarding-ext-iam.md) tutorial,
we learned how [Keycloak](/docs/concepts/glossary#keycloak-service) helps with user access and how it works together with the agent.
To set things up, the admin has to provision the required resources.

> However, relying on the admin for onboarding operation can be restrictive for some use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, relying on the admin for onboarding operations can be restrictive for some use cases.
```

For example, some tenants might want to onboard on a self-service agent instance without admin intervention.

By leveraging Keycloak for a self-service agent instance,
users can self-register or link to other [Identity Providers (IDPs)](/docs/concepts/glossary#idp) to register an account.

> Once the account is registered, users can use it to set up their own wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the account is registered, users can use it to set up their wallets.
```

This tutorial will dive into the steps to facilitate this scenario where [administrator](/docs/concepts/glossary#administrator) intervention is not needed.

## Roles

> In sef-service tenant management with external IAM, there is only 1 role:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In self-service tenant management with external IAM, there is only one role:
```

1. [Tenant](/docs/concepts/glossary#tenant)

## Prerequisites

> 1. Keycloak up and running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Keycloak is up and running.
```

2. Keycloak is configured as follows
   1. A realm called `my-realm` is created
   2. A client called `prism-agent` under `my-realm` with __authorization__ feature is created. (See [create client instruction](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/authorization_services/index.html#_resource_server_create_client))

>    3. Make sure the `prism-agent` client has __direct access grants__ enabled to simplify login process for this tutorial

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   3. Make sure the `prism-agent` client has __direct access grants__ enabled to simplify login process for this tutorial
```
```suggestion
   3. Make sure the `prism-agent` client has __direct access grants__ enabled to simplify the login process for this tutorial.
```

   4. Make sure to [allow user self-registration](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/index.html#con-user-registration_server_administration_guide).
3. PRISM Agent up and running
4. PRISM Agent is configured with the following environment variables:
   1. `ADMIN_TOKEN=my-admin-token`
   2. `DEFAULT_WALLET_ENABLED=false`
   3. `KEYCLOAK_ENABLED=true`
   4. `KEYCLOAK_URL=http://localhost:9980` (replace with appropriate value)
   5. `KEYCLOAK_REALM=my-realm`
   6. `KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID=prism-agent`
   7. `KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET=<KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET>` (replace with appropriate value)
   8. `KEYCLOAK_UMA_AUTO_UPGRADE_RPT=true`

## Overview

This tutorial demonstrate the process of user self-registration on Keycloak.

> Then the users can log in to Keycloak to obtain a token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, the users can log in to Keycloak to obtain a token.
```

> When this token is used on the agent for the wallet creation, the agent recognizes it belonging to a tenant and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the agent uses this token for the wallet creation, the agent recognizes it belongs to a tenant and automatically associates the tenant's permission with the created wallet.
```

> automatically associate the tenant's permission with the created wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Endpoints

### Agent endpoints
| Endpoint                  | Description                        | Role   |
|---------------------------|------------------------------------|--------|
| `GET /wallets`            | List the wallets on PRISM Agent    | Tenant |
| `POST /wallets`           | Create a new wallet on PRISM Agent | Tenant |
| `GET /did-registrar/dids` | List the DIDs inside the wallet    | Tenant |

### Keycloak endpoints
| Endpoint                                             | Description           | Role   |
|------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|--------|
| `POST /realms/{realm}/protocol/openid-connect/token` | Issue a new JWT token | Tenant |

## Tenant interactions

### 1. Self-register account on Keycloak

Start by registering a new account on Keycloak, accessible through its login page.

> Usually this should be available at `http://localhost:9980/realms/my-realm/account/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually, this should be available at `http://localhost:9980/realms/my-realm/account/`.
```

> For detailed instruction on how to register a new user,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed instructions on how to register a new user,
```

please refer to [registering a new user](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/index.html#proc-registering-new-user_server_administration_guide) section on the official documentation.

### 2. Obtain access token from Keycloak

Once a new account is registered, Keycloak should recognize it, allowing the user to log in and obtain the access token.

> Run this command to log in and get the access token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run this command to log in and get the access token.
```

```bash
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:9980/realms/my-realm/protocol/openid-connect/token' \
  -d "grant_type=password" \
  -d "client_id=admin-cli" \
  -d "username=alice" \
  -d "password=1234"
```

Make sure to use the correct username and password.

> Special attention on the `client_id`, this should be the actual `client_id` of the frontend application that log the user in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Special attention on the `client_id`; this should be the actual `client_id` of the frontend application that logs the user in.
```

> For this tutorial, it is absolutely OK to use `admin-cli`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this tutorial, it is OK to use `admin-cli`.
```

Example token response (some fields omitted for readability)

```json
{
    "access_token": "eyJhbGciOi...7ocDHofUDQ",
    "refresh_token": "eyJhbGciOi...otsEEi4eQA",
    ...
}
```

### 3. Check the existing wallets

> Right after the account is registered, there should be no permission associated to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Right after the account is registered, no permission should be associated with it.
```

Listing wallets on it should return empty results.

```bash
curl -X 'GET' \
  'http://localhost:8080/prism-agent/wallets' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOi...7ocDHofUDQ' \
  -H 'Accept: application/json'
```

> Make sure to use the correct `access_token` in the `Authorization` header from the previous command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the correct `access_token` in the previous command's Authorization header.
```

Response Example:

```json
{
  "self": "/wallets",
  "kind": "WalletPage",
  "pageOf": "/wallets",
  "contents": []
}
```

### 4. Create a new wallet

> The wallet can be created using a `POST /wallets` endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a wallet using a `POST /wallets` endpoint.
```

> This wallet is going to act as a container for the tenant's assets (DIDs, VCs, Connections, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This wallet will be a container for the tenant's assets (DIDs, VCs, Connections, etc.).
```

> The wallet seed may be provided during the wallet creation or omitted to let the Agent generate one randomly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Agent can provide or randomly generate the wallet seed during wallet creation.
```

> If the user already have the wallet associated, the wallet creation will fail as multiple wallets per tenant is not yet allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user already has the wallet associated, the wallet creation will fail as multiple wallets per tenant are not yet allowed.
```

```bash
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:8080/prism-agent/wallets' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOi...7ocDHofUDQ' \
  -H 'Accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "seed": "c9994785ce6d548134020f610b76102ca1075d3bb672a75ec8c9a27a7b8607e3b9b384e43b77bb08f8d5159651ae38b98573f7ecc79f2d7e1f1cc371ce60cf8a",
    "name": "my-wallet"
  }'
```

Response Example:

```json
{
  "id": "99734c87-5c9d-4697-b5fd-dea4e9590ba7",
  "name": "my-wallet",
  "createdAt": "2023-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "updatedAt": "2023-01-01T00:00:00Z"
}
```

> In this step, the agent create both wallet resource as well as UMA permission on Keycloak assigning the new wallet to the user who created it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, the agent creates both wallet resource and UMA permission on Keycloak, assigning the new wallet to the user who created it.
```

### 5. Perform a simple action to verify access to PRISM Agent

> Without further operation, the wallet should be availble for the tenant to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without further operation, the wallet should be available for the tenant.
```

> To prove that the tenant can access the wallet,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prove that the tenant can access the wallet, list the DIDs using RPT in the `Authorization` header.
```

> try listing the DIDs in the wallet using RPT in the `Authorization` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```bash
curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:8080/prism-agent/did-registrar/dids' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOi...7ocDHofUDQ' \
  -H 'Accept: application/json'
```

> The result should show 200 status with an empty list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The wallet was successfully created, but it currently does not contain any DIDs - indicated by an empty list and a 200 status.
```

> This means that the wallet has been created and it does not contain any DIDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
